96
 IEEE SOFTWARE 
 |  WWW.COMPUTER.ORG/SOFTWARE
  |  @IEEESOFTWARE
with political of˜ces, blockchains 
could be tailored for that purpose.
Furthermore, many Moscow 
residents don™t have time to attend 

face-to-face meetings. So, meetings 

have moved to the Digital Home 
online platform. In December 2017, 
residents began using a blockchain 

to vote, and the results were publicly 

auditable.
8 City of˜cials believed 
that neighbors should have a con
-venient environment in which to in
-˚uence their living conditions. The 

of˜cials also believed that a block
-chain would increase trust between 
citizens and government.
12 Each 
question discussed by the community 

is moved to BEV. After the polling is 
˜nished, the results are provided.
9To assess BEV™s trustworthiness, 
the city of Moscow commissioned 
the accounting ˜rm PwC to conduct 
an audit.
10 PwC looked at the pos
-sibility that the polling™s outcome 

could be manipulated by internal 
employees and external attacks. The 

audit found no reason to be con
-cerned for polls that involved more 
than 300,000 votes.
In March 2017, the South Korean 
province of Gyeonggi-do employed a 
BEV system to vote on the Ddabok 
Community Support Project.
13 Nine-
 thousand residents voted using a 

blockchain platform developed by 
the Korean ˜nancial-technology 

startup Block that included smart 

contracts. The votes, results, and 
other relevant data were stored in 
a blockchain. No management or 

central authority was involved in 

this process.
14 This was the ˜rst 
time South Korea applied such a 
technology.
Shareholders of the Estonian tech
-nology company LVH Group who 
are Estonian citizens or Estonian 
 e-residents can now use BEV to make 

corporate-governance-related deci
-sions.
15 They can log in using their 
veri˜ed national online ID and vote 
at LVH™s annual general meeting. 
Estonia™s e-residency platform au
-thenticates e-resident shareholders.
16  Estonia plans to adopt blockchains 
in a range of areas such as an 
 e-residency project (which allows 
foreign citizens to establish a busi
-ness within Estonian jurisdiction) 
and healthcare (securing health data 
storage and allowing real-time moni
-toring of patient conditions).
17In Sierra Leone™s March 2018 
general elections, Swiss blockchain 
startup Agora provided a partial 
tally of election results.
11 Agora was 
Table 1. Blockchain-based solutions deployed for voting at the community, 
 city, and national levels.
Setting
The context
Remarks
The city of Moscow™s Active Citizen 
program
In December 2017, the program started using 

a blockchain for voting and to make the voting 

results publicly auditable. Each question 

discussed by the community and put up for 

voting is moved to the e-voting system using 

a blockchain. After the voting is complete, the 

results are listed on a ledger containing all the 

previous polls.
The most popular polls were reported to have 137,000 to 

220,000 participants.
10 In one such case on the Ethereum 
platform, citizens indicated their preferences for temporary 

relocation if the building in which they were living would be 
demolished and replaced by a better building. The platform 
reached a peak of approximately 1,000 transactions per 
minute. It™s not clear whether the platform can handle the 

volume if a higher proportion of Moscow™s 12 million citizens 

participate in the voting.
The South Korean province of 

Gyeonggi-do™s community projects
The province used a blockchain-based 

voting system to gather votes on community 

projects. 9,000 residents voted.
The Korean ˜nancial-technology startup Block developed the 

blockchain platform.
The annual general meeting of the 

Estonian tech company LVH Group
Shareholders can log in using their veri˜ed 

national online ID and vote at the meeting.
The voting system issues voting-right assets and voting-

token assets to shareholders. A user can spend voting tokens 

to vote on meeting agenda items if that user owns the related 

voting-right asset. Nasdaq designed the system.
Sierra Leone™s March 2018 general 

elections
Swiss startup Agora carried out tallying in 

two districts. After the voting, a team of 

accredited observers from different locations 

manually entered approximately 400,000 

ballots into Agora™s blockchain system.
This test was considered a partial deployment of a 

blockchain.
11 The elections were only veri˜ed by blockchain, 
not blockchain powered. Agora provided an independent vote 

count, which was compared with the main tally.
